The Project Gutenberg eBook of Christmas 1976: Santa's Sampler, by
Caroline Bowie

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Christmas 1976: Santa's Sampler
       A Collection of over 100 Hors D'Oeuvre Recipes from members of
       the St. Louis Alumni Kappa Alpha Theta

Editor: Caroline Bowie

Release Date: April 6, 2022 [eBook #67786]

Language: English

Produced by: Stephen Hutcheson and the Online Distributed Proofreading
             Team at https://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK CHRISTMAS 1976: SANTA'S
SAMPLER ***





  CHRISTMAS

  [Illustration]

  1976

  SANTA’S
  SAMPLER

  [Illustration]


All proceeds from the sale of this book will go to the Kappa Alpha
Theta Foundation and the Good Shepherd School for Children.




  _SANTA’S SAMPLER_

  A Collection of over 100 Hors D’Oeuvre Recipes

  Recipes from members of the St. Louis Alumni
  Kappa Alpha Theta


  Cover Design by Sandy Zigenfuss

  Cookbook Committee: Ginny Cowger, Sandy Mullin
                      Pat White, Sandy Zigenfuss
                      Caroline Bowie




  _TABLE OF CONTENTS_


  HOT DIPS AND SPREADS          PAGE       4

  HOT TIDBITS                   PAGE      11

  COLD DIPS AND SPREADS         PAGE      21

  COLD TIDBITS                  PAGE      32

  CHRISTMAS GIFTS TO MAKE       PAGE      41


Additional copies of Santa’s Sampler can be purchased for $1.00 from:

  Caroline Bowie
  1047 Glenway Drive
  Glendale, Missouri
  63122

Books can be mailed for an additional 40¢ to cover the cost of postage
and handling.




[Illustration:

  Hot
  Dips
  and
  Spreads]


_CAROL’S DIP_

  1 can Ro-Tel tomatoes, well drained
  1 pound Velveeta

Heat together and serve with Doritos.


_HASTY HOTS_

  4 green onions, chopped fine
  ¹⁄₂ cup Parmesan cheese
  6 tablespoons mayonnaise

Toast rounds or sliced French rolls.

Toast one side of bread rounds or roll slices. Combine rest of
ingredients and spread mixture on untoasted side and put under broiler
until just bubbly. Makes 1¹⁄₂ to 2 dozen canapes.


_RIPE OLIVE SUSANS_

  1¹⁄₂ cups shredded sharp Cheddar cheese
  6 slices bacon fried and cut in small pieces
  1 cup chopped ripe olives
  ¹⁄₂ cup thinly sliced green onions
  ¹⁄₂ cup mayonnaise--just enough to moisten and bind

Spread on toast and broil until bubbly, or spread on thin bread, place
in 300 degree oven until bottom is toasted. Then broil until bubbly.


_CHEESEY BEAN DIP_

  1 small package Velveeta
  1 can Armour Chili with beans

Heat together and serve with Taco chips.


_ALKI CRAB FONDUE_

  3 8 oz. packages cream cheese softened
  ¹⁄₂ cup mayonnaise
  1 cup dry white wine
  2 scant teaspoons prepared mustard
  2 teaspoons powdered sugar
  1 teaspoon onion juice
  1 dash seasoning salt
  3 cans crab

Cream everything except crab. Beat awhile. It will still look curdled.
Then add crab. Heat in double boiler or freeze. Serve in fondue pot.
Dip with 1 inch cubes of french bread. Serves 12 to 15.


_TUNA FONDUE_

  1 can tuna
  1 large jar of Cheez Whiz
  ¹⁄₄ cup butter
  1 can diced chilies

Melt all ingredients in double boiler, and transfer to a fondue pot.
Serve with tiny pieces of french bread. Cut in cubes and toast if
desired.


_SPICY BEEF DIP_

  1 pound ground beef
  ¹⁄₂ cup chopped onion
  1 clove garlic minced
  1 8 oz. can tomato sauce
  ¹⁄₄ cup catsup
  1 teaspoon oregano, crushed
  1 teaspoon sugar
  1 8 oz. cream cheese, softened
  ¹⁄₃ cup Parmesan cheese, grated

Cook beef, onion, and garlic till beef is browned. Stir in next four
ingredients. Cover, and simmer 10 min. Remove from heat. Stir in
cheeses until melted. Serve warm in chafing dish. Makes 3 cups.


_RICE’S CHILE DIP_

  1 pound Rice’s Chile
  1 pound Velveeta
  1 bunch chopped green onions
  1 4 oz. can chopped green chilies

Melt together in double broiler and place in chafing dish. Serve with
Doritos.


_BROCCOLI DIP_

Cook and drain well 1 package broccoli.

Heat with:

  1   can mushroom soup
  2   tubes Kraft garlic cheese
  1   4 oz. can mushrooms
  ¹⁄₂ cup minced onion
  ¹⁄₂ package dry onion soup mix

Made day ahead and serve hot in chafing dish.

Use Fritos, cauliflower or carrots to dip.


_JIM’S DIP_

  1   pound Velveeta cheese
  1   6 oz. cup grated sharp Cheddar cheese
  1   can chopped green chilies
  ¹⁄₂ can evaporated milk
  1   tablespoon Worcestershire sauce
  ¹⁄₂ stick margarine or butter

Melt all ingredients in double boiler. Transfer to chafing dish. Serve
with Fritos and Doritos.


_HOT CHEESE ’N CRAB DIP_

  1   7 oz. can crab meat
  1   10 oz. stick sharp Cheddar cheese
  1   8 oz. package sliced sharp American cheese
  ¹⁄₄ cup butter or margarine
  ¹⁄₂ cup sauterne

Cut cheese in small pieces; combine in a saucepan with the butter and
sauterne. Stir over low heat till cheeses melt. Stir in the crab and
heat through. Pour into chafing dish. Serve with Triscuits or crust
bread. Makes three cups.


_JALEPENO PIE_

  1   7 oz. can jalepeno peppers
  ¹⁄₂ pound sharp cheese, coarsely grated
  4   eggs
  Salt and red pepper to taste

Drain and seed peppers. Cut into thin lengthwise slivers and line
bottom and sides of a 9 inch pie plate. Press grated cheese in plate
over peppers. Beat eggs, adding salt and red pepper. Pour over cheese.
Bake at 350 degrees for 25 to 30 minutes. After removing from oven,
slice into small wedges. Leave pie in plate and pass as finger food.


_HOT CLAM DIP_

  2 large packages cream cheese
  2 cans minced clams, drained a little
  2 tablespoons Worcestershire sauce or to taste
  2 teaspoons lemon juice or to taste
  5 or 6 green onions chopped finely, tops included
  Parsley, chopped finely
  Red pepper to taste

Have cream cheese at room temperature. Combine all ingredients in
double boiler and cook until cheese is melted. This dip is served in a
chafing dish with Melba rounds or other crackers. It is better if made
ahead so the seasonings can blend.


_CHEESE FONDUE_

  1   clove garlic, large
  1   6 oz. Emmenthaler cheese
  1   6 oz. Gruyere
  1   tablespoon potato flour or cornstarch
  ¹⁄₄ teaspoon each salt and white pepper
  ¹⁄₈ teaspoon nutmeg
  1   cup good quality light dry white wine
  2   tablespoons Kirsch or brandy

Rub bottom and sides of heavy earthenware casserole, fondue pot or
chafing dish with cut garlic. Toss cheeses with potato flour or
cornstarch and seasonings. Pour wine into pot and heat until bubbles
start to rise to the surface. Do not boil. With wooden fork or spoon
stir constantly until cheese is melted. Adjust seasonings and add
Kirsch or brandy.

 Serve with: Chunks of sourdough bread, Italian bread or other crusty
 bread.

 Cubes of ham, cooked chicken, shrimp or crab legs.

 Raw vegetables, such as carrots, zucchini or celery sticks.


_CHICKEN CHEESE FONDUE_

  1   6 oz. Emmenthaler cheese
  1   6 oz. Gruyere cheese
  1   tablespoon potato flour or cornstarch
  1   can condensed cream of chicken soup
  1   teaspoon pressed garlic
  2   teaspoons curry powder
  ¹⁄₂ teaspoon powdered ginger
  ¹⁄₄ teaspoon white pepper
  ¹⁄₂ cup sour cream

Toss cheese with flour or cornstarch. Heat soup, garlic and seasonings
and stir to blend well. Add cheese a handful at a time. When cheeses are
melted blend in sour cream. Adjust seasonings. Reduce heat. Serve with
crackers or chips.


_CRAB MELBA_

  4     tablespoons butter
  ¹⁄₃   cup flour
  2     cups half and half
  2     tablespoons tomato paste or catsup
  ¹⁄₂   cup grated sharp Cheddar or Gruyere cheese
  1¹⁄₂ teaspoons paprika
  ¹⁄₂   teaspoon garlic powder
  ¹⁄₈   teaspoon cayenne pepper
  1     tablespoon lemon juice
  ¹⁄₄   pound mushrooms, finely minced
  ¹⁄₄   cup finely minced green onions and tops
  2     tablespoons butter
  12    ounces each flaked crab, lobster or shrimp
  3     tablespoons minced pimento
  2     tablespoons dry sherry

Melt butter until bubbly. Sprinkle with flour; cook and stir 3 minutes.
Gradually add half and half. Cook and stir until smooth and thickened.
Add tomato paste, cheese, seasonings and lemon juice; cook and stir to
melt cheese. Saute mushrooms and onions in butter 5 minutes and add to
cream sauce. With fork stir in crab and lobster or shrimp and pimento.
Reheat without boiling, add sherry and adjust seasonings. Transfer to
chafing dish. Serve with water crackers or melba rounds. Serves 50.


_HOT CHIP BEEF DIP_

  ¹⁄₃ cup chopped green pepper
  ¹⁄₄ cup chopped green onion
  1   jar dried beef, cut fine
  1   8 oz. cream cheese
  1   cup sour cream
  ¹⁄₄ cup chopped pecans

Mix all ingredients except pecans. Put in baking dish with nuts on top.
Bake 20 minutes at 350 degrees. Serve hot with triscuit crackers.


_CHEESE-CRAB FONDUE_

  1 8 oz. cream cheese
  1 8 oz. American process sharp cheese
  ¹⁄₄ teaspoon cayenne pepper
  ¹⁄₄ teaspoon garlic salt
  ¹⁄₂ teaspoon Worcestershire sauce
  ¹⁄₂ cup half and half
  1 can king crab

Melt cheeses in top of double boiler and add remaining ingredients.
Serve in fondue pot with assorted crackers.


_CHEDDAR CHIPPED BEEF DIP_

  ¹⁄₄ cup chopped onions
  ¹⁄₂ cup milk
  ¹⁄₂ cup grated cheddar cheese
  1 jar chipped beef chopped
  1 8 oz. package cream cheese
  1 glass old English cheese
  1 3 oz. jar mushrooms
  2 tablespoons parsley
  2 tablespoons chopped pimento

Saute onions in ¹⁄₂ tablespoon butter. Stir in milk. Add cheeses
and stir until melted. Add remaining ingredients and serve hot with
crackers or party rye.




[Illustration:

  Hot
  Tidbits]


_MUSHROOM APPETIZER_

  1 pound mushrooms, fresh
  1 pound Rice’s mild pork sausage

Clean mushrooms and remove stems. Fill mushrooms with mixture. Bake at
325 degrees for 25 minutes.


_STUFFED MUSHROOMS_

Wash, drain, remove and save stems from 24 medium sized mushrooms.

  Combine and stuff mushrooms with:
  ¹⁄₄ cup finely chopped onions
  ¹⁄₂ cup grated Parmesan cheese
  1   teaspoon salt
  ¹⁄₂ teaspoon pepper
  ¹⁄₂ teaspoon paprika
  1   teaspoon olive oil
  All finely chopped mushroom stems

Place stuffed mushrooms in baking pan with 2 tablespoons olive oil.
Bake 15 minutes at 350 degrees or 375 degrees. May be served on
buttered toast rounds or with cocktail picks.


_CRAB STUFFED MUSHROOMS_

  3   dozen whole large mushrooms
  2   7¹⁄₂ ounce cans crab drained
  1   tablespoon parsley
  1   teaspoon capers
  ¹⁄₄ teaspoon dry mustard
  ¹⁄₂ cup mayonnaise

Combine all ingredients and place in mushroom caps that have been
cleaned, drained and stems removed. Bake at 350 degrees for 8 minutes.


_CHEESE KRISPS_

  2 cups grated sharp Cheddar Cheese
  2 sticks softened butter
  2 cups flour
  2 cups Rice Krispies

Cream butter, mix in cheese until blended; add flour, mix well and add
cereal. Shape into balls and place on ungreased cookie sheet. Flatten
with fork. Bake for 10 minutes at 375 degrees. Sprinkle with salt while
hot.


_CHEESE SQUARES_

  1¹⁄₂ loaf Pepperidge Farm thin sliced bread
  2     jars Kraft Old English cheese spread
  ³⁄₄   teaspoon dill weed
  ³⁄₄   teaspoon Worcestershire Sauce
  ¹⁄₂   teaspoon Tabasco
  ¹⁄₂   teaspoon onion powder
  ¹⁄₂   teaspoon Beau Monde seasoning
  1     dash cayenne pepper
  1     stick butter softened

Cut off crusts of 27 slices. Cream ingredients until smooth. Spread
three slices with mixture. Stack the three slices, then spread mixture
on sides. Cut into 9 squares. Repeat procedure with other slices. Bake
at 350 degrees for 15 to 20 minutes. Can be frozen and baked as needed.


BACON ROLL UPS

  1 loaf cracked wheat or whole wheat bread
  1 8 oz. package cream cheese
  1 pound bacon

Cut crusts off slices of bread. Spread bread slices with softened cream
cheese. Roll bread slice and cut into three pieces. Roll each piece in
¹⁄₃ or ¹⁄₂ strip of bacon. Toothpick together. Bake at least 25 minutes
at 350 degrees. Can freeze baked or unbaked. If baked, thaw and reheat
before serving.


_HOT PORK AND BACON APPETIZER_

  1   pound ground pork
  ¹⁄₂ cup shredded cheddar cheese
  ¹⁄₄ cup fine corn flake crumbs
  ¹⁄₄ cup chopped onion
  ¹⁄₄ cup stuffed olives
  ¹⁄₄ cup chopped water chestnuts
  1   egg
  1   teaspoon salt
  ¹⁄₄ teaspoon pepper
  8-12 slices of bacon

Combine everything but bacon. Shape into about 40 to 50 small rolls
about 1¹⁄₂ inch long or fewer rolls 2¹⁄₂ inches long. Cut bacon slices
in halves or thirds. Wrap each pork roll with a piece of bacon, secure
with a toothpick. Bake at 400 degrees for 20 minutes. Put in chafing
dish. Can garnish with pineapple chunks, green pepper and maraschino
cherries if desired. Can freeze raw or cooked. If frozen cooked just
reheat.


_PINEAPPLE MEATBALLS_

_MEATBALLS_

  ¹⁄₂ cup milk
  2   slices bread crumbled
  2   pounds ground round
  1   egg beaten
  2   teaspoons seasoned salt, pepper and garlic powder
  1   tablespoon sherry

Mix all of the above well and shape into 1¹⁄₂ inch meatballs. Brown the
meatballs in 2 tablespoons oil.

_SAUCE_

  1   can bouillon
  1   can pineapple tidbits in heavy syrup, do not drain.
      If unable to find tidbits use a 1 pound 4 ounce can
      of pineapple and cut the chunks in thirds.
  ¹⁄₂ cup chopped green pepper
  ¹⁄₄ cup wine vinegar
  ¹⁄₂ cup sugar
  2   tablespoons soy sauce
  ¹⁄₂ teaspoon salt
  1 teaspoon accent
  2 tablespoons cornstarch

Mix all of the above ingredients except the cornstarch. Moisten the
2 tablespoons cornstarch in a little water and add to sauce. Arrange
meatballs in a large baking dish and pour the sauce on top. Bake for 45
minutes in 300 degree oven. To serve, transfer the meatballs and sauce
into a chafing dish so that they will stay warm.


_SPINACH BALLS_

  2   packages chopped spinach, cooked, drained well
  2   cups seasoned bread stuffing
  1   cup parmesan cheese
  ³⁄₄ cup soft butter
  6   eggs beaten
  salt and pepper to taste

Mix well, shape into bite sized balls. Bake on cookie sheet at 350
degree oven for 10 to 12 minutes. May be frozen and reheated.


_BABY REUBENS_

  1 loaf cocktail rye bread

Spread each piece with Thousand Island dressing or mayonnaise seasoned
with horseradish for variation. Cover with thin slice of corned beef,
about 1 scant T. sauerkraut, and small square of swiss cheese. Bake at
350 degrees until cheese melts and canapes are hot.


_MUFFIN CANAPE_

  6     green onions, sliced thinly, using some tops
  1¹⁄₂ cup grated Cheddar cheese
  1¹⁄₂ cup mayonnaise
  3     English Muffins, split quartered

Mix first 3 ingredients. Spread on muffins and broil until brown. Makes
24.


_CRAB RANGOON_

  50 Wonton Skins
  2  8 oz. cream cheese
  2  cans Crab, 6¹⁄₂ oz.
  2  tablespoons A. 1. Sauce
  1  tablespoon Garlic Powder
  2  egg yolks

Mix together all ingredients except skins and egg yolks. Take a
teaspoon of mixture and place in center of Wonton skin. Brush egg yolk
on corners of skins, pull corners together and twist close. Fry in deep
hot fat until golden brown. Serve with hot mustard sauce and sweet sour
sauce.


_STUFFED MUSHROOMS_

  12  large mushrooms
  3   tablespoons melted butter
  ¹⁄₂ teaspoon salt
  ¹⁄₂ teaspoon pepper
  2   tablespoons minced green onions
  ¹⁄₂ tablespoon flour
  2   tablespoon butter
  ¹⁄₂ cup heavy cream
  3   tablespoons fresh minced parsley
  ¹⁄₂ cup grated swiss cheese

Remove mushroom stems and reserve. Wash and dry the caps, brush with
melted butter and arrange in shallow dish. Season lightly with salt and
pepper. Wash and dry stems and mince. Saute with green onions in butter
for 4 to 5 minutes. Lower heat, add flour and stir for one minute.
Stir in cream and simmer for a minute or two until thickened. Stir in
parsley and seasonings. Fill the mushroom caps with this mixture. Top
each with a teaspoon of cheese and a drop of melted butter. Set aside
until ready to cook. Bake in upper ¹⁄₃ of oven for 15 minutes at 375
degrees. The stuffing should be brown on top.


_ARTICHOKE APPETIZER_

  ¹⁄₂ cup chopped onion
  ¹⁄₂ cup water
  4   eggs
  ¹⁄₄ cup fine dry bread crumbs
  ¹⁄₂ teaspoon salt
  ¹⁄₈ teaspoon crushed dry oregano
  2-3 drops hot pepper sauce
  2   cups shredded cheddar cheese
  2   cans marinated artichoke hearts, drained and finely chopped.
  ¹⁄₈ teaspoon pepper

Cook onion in water about 5 minutes. Combine eggs, bread crumbs,
salt, pepper, oregano and hot pepper sauce. Stir in onion, cheese and
artichokes. Spread in greased 11 x 7¹⁄₂ pan. Bake at 350 degrees for 17
to 18 minutes. Cut into 1 inch squares. Serve hot or cold.


_RUMAKI_

  ¹⁄₂ pound chicken livers
  1   8 oz. can water chestnuts, sliced
  3   green onions
  8   slices bacon, cut in half
  ¹⁄₂ cup Soy Sauce
  ¹⁄₄ teaspoon Ginger
  ¹⁄₄ teaspoon Curry Powder

Cut onions into one inch pieces. Roll a piece of onion, a slice of
water chestnut and chicken liver in each piece of bacon. Fasten with
a toothpick. Marinate at least one hour in mixture of rest of the
ingredients. Bake, uncovered, on rack in shallow pan at 400 degrees for
15 to 20 minutes, or until bacon is crisp. Makes 16.


_SPICY SAUSAGE BALLS_

  1   pound lean pork sausage, mashed
  1   egg well beaten
  ¹⁄₃ fine dry bread crumbs
  2   teaspoons curry powder
  ¹⁄₄ teaspoon chili powder

Mix all above ingredients and shape in ³⁄₄ inch balls. Brown on all
sides and drain well on paper.

  1 8 oz. tomato sauce
  3 tablespoon catsup
  1 tablespoon Soy sauce
  1 tablespoon Worcestershire sauce

Combine in saucepan and add sausage balls. Simmer covered for 15
minutes. If used as an appetizer, remove cover and simmer longer to
thicken sauce. Can be used as a main dish served over rice.


_ALOHA MARINATED CHICKEN WINGS_

Prepare 1 day in advance. Separate 1 package chicken wings discard
tips. Marinate in following:

  ¹⁄₂ cup vinegar
  ¹⁄₂ cup dark Karo syrup
  ¹⁄₂ cup soy sauce
  ¹⁄₄ cup dark molasses

Drain and reserve marinade. Bake in 300 degree oven for ³⁄₄
hour-covered dish. Return to marinade and serve in chafing dish.


_SAUSAGE CHEESE BALLS_

  1 pound lean ground sausage
  1 pound shredded Cheddar cheese
  3 cups Bisquick

Let sausage reach room temperature. Mix all ingredients and form into
balls. Bake at 350 degrees until brown. Makes 100. May be frozen and
reheated.


_PUMPERNICKLE--MUENSTER TRIANGLES_

  1   8 oz. package Muenster cheese
  4   slices of Pumpernickle
  ¹⁄₂ medium onion

Cut slices of cheese in halves. Place 2 halves on each of 4 bread
slices. Cut onion into slices and place sliced onion rings on top.
Broil 3-5 minutes, cut into triangles. Makes 16.


_FRIED MUSHROOMS_

  1     pound fresh mushrooms
  ¹⁄₃   cup flour
  ¹⁄₄   cup dry bread crumbs
  1¹⁄₂ teaspoon salt
  ¹⁄₄   teaspoon ground black pepper
  1     egg slightly beaten

Rinse, pat dry and trim stems of mushrooms; set aside. Combine flour,
bread crumbs, salt and pepper. Dip mushrooms into egg, then coat with
flour mixture. Fry in skillet in ¹⁄₄ cup salad oil until golden. Drain.
To freeze; cool fried mushrooms completely. Wrap for freezing. Freeze
up to 3 weeks. To reheat place frozen mushrooms in pan and place in 500
degree oven for about 8 minutes.


_TOASTED CHEESE ROUNDS_

  ¹⁄₃ cup Parmesan cheese, grated
  ³⁄₄ cup mayonnaise
  ¹⁄₂ cup chopped onion
      dash Worcestershire
      salt and pepper to taste
  1   loaf party rye

Combine all ingredients and mix well. Spread on bread and broil until
puffy.


_ARTICHOKE BUBBLES_

  16 slices party rye bread
  1  can (14 oz.) artichoke hearts, drained
  1  egg white
  2  tablespoons mayonnaise
  2  tablespoons grated Parmesan
  1  tablespoon shredded Cheddar cheese
  1  dash Cayenne
  1  dash Paprika

Cut artichoke hearts in half, place one half cut side down on each
bread slice. Beat egg white until stiff. Fold in remaining ingredients
except paprika. Top each artichoke half with about 1¹⁄₂ teaspoons egg
white mixture. Sprinkle with paprika. Bake at 400 degrees for 10 to 15
minutes.


_ARTICHOKE CHEESE FRITTATA (OMELETTE)_

  4   eggs
  1   dozen crumbled soda crackers
  ¹⁄₂ pound grated Cheddar cheese
  2   jars of 6 ounce marinated artichoke hearts, chopped and drained,
      reserving 2 tablespoons artichoke oil.
  3   green onions, chopped
  1   clove garlic
  ¹⁄₂ cup chopped fresh parsley
  salt and pepper to taste

Fry onion and whole garlic in reserved oil. Remove garlic, and take pan
off heat. Cool the onions. Beat eggs slightly in large bowl and add
each remaining ingredient, one at a time with a fork. Add artichokes to
mixture. Stir and pour into well greased 8 × 8 pan or 9 inch round pan.
Bake 35 to 40 minutes at 325 degrees. Serve hot or cold.




[Illustration:

  Cold
  Dips
  and
  Spreads]


_A MEAL IN ITSELF_

  1   cup creamed cottage cheese
  ¹⁄₂ cup bleu cheese, mashed
  1   hard-boiled egg, thinly sliced
  1   small green onion, thinly sliced
  ¹⁄₄ cup sweet pickle relish
  2   tablespoons Creamy French dressing

Mix in glass bowl. Cover and refrigerate overnight. Serve cold with
crackers.


_SWISS CHEESE SPREAD_

  ¹⁄₃ cup mayonnaise
  1   tablespoon white wine
  ¹⁄₂ teaspoon lemon juice
  ¹⁄₄ teaspoon prepared mustard
  1   dash each--garlic powder, salt, pepper, nutmeg
  2   cups finely shredded Swiss cheese

Combine all ingredients and chill. Garnish with nuts.


_CHEDDAR BEER SPREAD_

  ¹⁄₂ pound mild Cheddar cheese, grated
  ¹⁄₂ clove of garlic crushed
  1   dash cayenne
  1   tablespoon Worcestershire sauce
  ¹⁄₂ teaspoon dry mustard
  ¹⁄₂ cup beer

Combine all ingredients and mix until smooth. Fill crock and seal with
paraffin. Refrigerate several weeks. Makes 1¹⁄₂ cups.


_CRAB AND CREAM CHEESE_

  1 8 oz. cream cheese
  1 bottle cocktail sauce (Sea Pass, if possible)
  1 can Crabmeat, drained and boned

Layer above ingredients. Serve with melba rounds or sesame crackers.


_DILLY DIP_

  ²⁄₃ cup mayonnaise
  ²⁄₃ cup sour cream
  1   tablespoon dried green onions
  1   tablespoon dried parsley
  1   teaspoon dill weed
  1   teaspoon accent
  1   tablespoon parsley

Refrigerate for 24 hours. Serve with vegetables.


_ROKA DIP FOR VEGETABLES_

  1   8 oz. cream cheese
  1   jar Roka cheese
  2   ounces Roka cheese crumbled
  1   tablespoon Worcestershire sauce
  1   dash Tabasco
  1   cup finely chopped watercress
  4   green onions chopped
  ¹⁄₄ teaspoon garlic powder
  2   tablespoons mayonnaise
  1   teaspoon curry powder
  1   teaspoon Beau Monde
  1   cup sour cream
  1   tablespoon onion flakes

Mix all ingredients in mixer. Serve with raw vegetables.


_BLOODY MARY DIP_

  1   cup sour cream
  1   cup mayonnaise
  2   envelopes Bloody Mary Mix
  ¹⁄₄ teaspoon salt
  2   tablespoons green onions, minced

Mix and chill overnight. Dip vegetables or crackers.


_SOY SAUCE DIP_

  1 cup mayonnaise
  2 tablespoons dehydrated onions
  2 tablespoons milk
  1 teaspoon ginger
  1 teaspoon vinegar
  1 teaspoon Soy Sauce

Combine and use for vegetable dip.


_CENTURION VEGETABLE DIP_

  1 bottle Wilson’s B V Gravy Base
  1 pint mayonnaise
  2 8 oz. cream cheese
  1 tablespoon grated onion
  1 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce

Beat together, with mixer, all ingredients except mayonnaise. Fold in
mayonnaise with spoon. Serve with raw vegetables.


_WILSON’S BVI VEGETABLE DIP_

  1 pint Hellmann’s mayonnaise
  2 8 oz. cream cheese
  2 oz. Blue cheese
  2 oz. BVI Gravy Base
  1 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce
  1 minced green onion

Beat together with mixer, all ingredients except mayonnaise. Fold in
mayonnaise with spoon. Serve with raw vegetables.


_SHRIMP OR CRAB MOLD_

  2   cans shrimp or crab
  1   can tomato soup
  1   8 oz. cream cheese
  1   tablespoon gelatin
  ¹⁄₄ cup cold water
  1   cup celery
  ¹⁄₂ cup onion chopped
  ³⁄₄ cup Hellmann’s Mayonnaise

Dissolve gelatin in cold water. Heat to boiling. Add soup little at a
time. Mix cheese little at a time. Add rest of ingredients. Pour into a
greased fish shaped mold.


_HAM BALL_

  1   8 oz. cream cheese
  1   large Underwood Deviled Ham
  3   tablespoons chopped onion
  ¹⁄₂ cup chopped pimento stuffed olives
  2   tablespoons Worcestershire sauce
  1   4 oz. grated sharp cheddar cheese
  2   tablespoons mayonnaise

Mix all together and chill until firm. Form into ball and roll in
pecans. You can make this at least three days in advance.


_CLAM DIP_

  1   8 oz. cream cheese
  ¹⁄₂ cup sour cream
  2   tablespoons mayonnaise
  2   tablespoons dill
  1   tablespoon garlic salt
  1   7 oz. can mixed clams
  2   tablespoons minced onion

Mix together all ingredients except clams. Fold in clams and
refrigerate 24 hours. Great with king size Fritos.


_PEANUT BUTTER PATE_

  ¹⁄₂ cup chopped fresh mushrooms
  2   tablespoons butter
  2   tablespoons lemon juice
  1   8 oz. cream cheese, softened
  2   tablespoons creamy peanut butter
  2   slices bacon--crisp and crumbled
  3   green onions, finely chopped

Cook mushrooms in butter for 5 minutes, stir in lemon juice. Remove
from heat. Beat cream cheese and peanut butter until fluffy. Stir in
mushrooms and cover. Refrigerate at least one hour. Shape into ball and
roll in bacon and onions. Cover and refrigerate until serving time.
Serve with crackers.


_SPINACH APPETIZER_

  1   pkg. frozen chopped spinach, thawed and drained
  1   8 oz. cream cheese
  ¹⁄₂ teaspoon Beau Monde
  ¹⁄₂ teaspoon salt
  ¹⁄₂ cup chopped fresh parsley
  ¹⁄₄ cup chopped green onion tops
  1   teaspoon Dill Weed

Mix everything together and serve on party rye.


_BLUE CHEESE SPREAD_

  1   cup American blue cheese
  1   cup cream cheese
  2   teaspoons minced onion
  ¹⁄₂ cup sour cream
  2   tablespoons white wine
      pinch garlic
  4   strips crisp bacon, crushed

Mix all ingredients and chill. Serve on crackers.


_CLAM BALL_

  2 8 oz. cream cheese
  2 green onions, minced
  1 dash Worcestershire sauce
  1 dash lemon pepper
  1 can minced clams, drained

Combine all ingredients. Shape in ball and roll in shelled sunflower
seeds. Serve with sesame crackers.


_SCRUMPTIOUS SHRIMP SPREAD_

  ¹⁄₂ cup Chili Sauce
  3   tablespoons tomato paste
  2   tablespoons dill pickle liquid
  1   tablespoon lemon juice
  1   tablespoon Horseradish
  ¹⁄₂ cup chopped dill pickle
  1 7 oz. can chopped shrimp
  1 8 oz. cream cheese

Beat cream cheese, add remaining ingredients. Serve on crackers.


_MANSFIELD DIP_

  2   cans crabmeat, drained very dry
  ¹⁄₂ head raw cauliflower
  ¹⁄₄ cup mayonnaise or enough to moisten
  1   teaspoon curry powder

Wash and dry cauliflower and chop fine, in blender. Mix all
ingredients. For a hotter taste add some Chili Sauce if desired.


_CRAB DIVINE_

  2   cans crabmeat (7¹⁄₂ oz.)
  3   8 oz. cream cheese softened
  6   tablespoons mayonnaise
  ¹⁄₄ teaspoon curry powder
  ¹⁄₄ teaspoon salt
  2   tablespoons lemon juice
  1   teaspoon Worcestershire Sauce
  1   3 oz. lemon jello
  2   tablespoons cold water

Soften jello in cold water and heat. Mix together all other ingredients
and pack in greased mold. Serve with crackers.


_CAMEMBERT CHEESE BALL_

  2   8 oz. cream cheese softened
  1   bunch green onion tops
  1   jar Old English Cheese
  1   jar Roka
  ¹⁄₂ round of Camembert Cheese

Make at least three days in advance. Mix all together and roll in
pecans. Serve at room temperature.


_KRAUT SPREAD_

  1   large can sauerkraut finely chopped and well drained
  ¹⁄₂ cup onion finely chopped
  ¹⁄₂ cup green pepper finely chopped
  ¹⁄₂ cup sugar
  ¹⁄₂ cup oil

Combine ingredients and chill at least 12 hours. Good on triscuits.


_A B C DIP_

  ¹⁄₃ cup toasted almonds
  ³⁄₄ cup mayonnaise
  12  ounces grated sharp cheddar cheese
  3   strips cooked bacon, crumbled
  1   tablespoon finely minced onion
  ¹⁄₄ teaspoon salt

Mix together all ingredients and serve on wheat crackers. Can be made
three days in advance.


_TUNA CHUTNEY DIP_

  1   8 oz. cream cheese
  ¹⁄₄ cup mayonnaise
  2   tablespoons prepared mustard
  ¹⁄₄ teaspoon cayenne
  2   7 oz. cans tuna
  ¹⁄₄ cup chutney

Mix all ingredients together and serve with crackers.


_MEXICAN PEPPER DIP_

  2 large tomatoes peeled and chopped
  4 chopped green onions
  1 small can chopped Green Chiles (El Paso)
  1 small can chopped ripe olives
  3 tablespoons Olive oil
  4 teaspoons vinegar
  1 teaspoon Garlic salt

Mix all ingredients together and chill. Serve with Tortilla chips.


_CURRY VEGETABLE DIP_

  1 cup mayonnaise
  1 teaspoon Curry Powder
  1 teaspoon Garlic salt
  1 teaspoon onion powder
  1 teaspoon Horseradish (optional)
  1 teaspoon Tarragon vinegar

Combine all ingredients and serve with raw vegetables.


_SPINACH DIP FOR VEGETABLES_

  1 package frozen chopped spinach
  2 cups mayonnaise
  1 cup green onions (about 2 bunches)
  1 teaspoon each, salt and pepper

Do not cook spinach. Thaw and thoroughly squeeze moisture out before
mixing with rest of ingredients. Serve with raw vegetables.


_ANCHOVY-CHEESE DIP_

  1   8 oz. cream cheese softened
  2   tablespoons chopped green olives
  1   tablespoon anchovy paste
  1   tablespoon snipped green onion tops
  1   tablespoon milk
  1   teaspoon lemon juice
  ¹⁄₂ teaspoon Worcestershire sauce

Combine all ingredients and beat until light and fluffy. Chill 24
hours. Serve with crackers or vegetables.


_CURRY BALL WITH CHUTNEY AND ALMONDS_

  2 8 oz. cream cheese softened
  2 tablespoons curry powder or more to taste
  1 4 oz. package sliced almonds
  4 tablespoons butter
  1 bottle curry sauce or chutney sauce

Mix together cream cheese and curry. Set in refrigerator, when cool
form into a log. Meanwhile brown almonds in butter and drain on paper
towel. When ball is cool roll in almonds and refrigerate. Just before
serving pour bottle of chutney or curry sauce over ball. Serve with
sesame crackers.


_CHUTNEY OVER CHEESE_

  1 8 oz. shredded cheddar cheese
  1 8 oz. cream cheese
  2 tablespoons sherry
  1 teaspoon curry powder

Mix all ingredients together and place in pie plate. At last minute,
spread on one large jar of chutney. Add chopped green onions on top.
Serve with Triscuits.


_TUNA PATE_

  1   8 oz. cream cheese
  2   tablespoons chili sauce
  2   tablespoons snipped parsley
  1   teaspoon instant minced onion
  ¹⁄₂ teaspoon bottled hot pepper sauce
  2   6¹⁄₂ oz. cans tuna drained

Blend first five ingredients, gradually stir in tuna. Beat until
blended. Pack in four cup mold. Chill thoroughly. Unmold and serve with
crackers.




[Illustration:

  Cold
  Tidbits]


_INDIAN CHICKEN BALLS_

  4   ounces cream cheese, softened
  2   tablespoon mayonnaise
  2   5 ounce cans chicken drained
  1   cup sliced, blanched almonds
  1   tablespoon chopped chutney
  1   tablespoon curry powder
  ¹⁄₂ teaspoon salt
  ¹⁄₂ cup flaked coconut

Beat cheese and mayonnaise until blended. Add rest of ingredients,
except coconut. Mix well and chill for one hour. Shape into 36 balls.
Roll in coconut and chill 3 to 4 hours before serving.


_CHUTNEY-CHICKEN BALLS_

  ¹⁄₄ cup finely chopped chutney or chutney sauce
  1   5 ounce can chicken spread
  salt, white pepper and curry powder to taste
  finely chopped almonds

Combine all ingredients except almonds. Chill and form into balls.
Shortly before serving roll balls in chopped almonds.


_FROSTY GRAPE CLUSTERS_

  2 pounds red, green or blue grapes
  2 egg whites, slightly beaten
  1 package lemon flavored gelatin
  1 teaspoon cinnamon or nutmeg

Separate grapes into small clusters. Wash and pat dry with paper
towels. Dip grapes in egg whites. Sprinkle with mixture of gelatin and
spices. Dry on cake racks in cool place. These are also nice around a
punch bowl or as a garnish on a buffet. Makes about 12 servings.


_FILLING FOR STUFFED CHERRY TOMATOES_

  1   large avocado
  ¹⁄₂ cup creamed cottage cheese
  1   teaspoon lemon juice
  ¹⁄₄ teaspoon salt
  ¹⁄₂ teaspoon Dill Weed
  Few drops onion juice
  Garnish with Fresh Dill

Take the centers out of the tomatoes. Mix all other ingredients
together until smooth. Fill the centers with a teaspoon full of the
mixture.


_CUCUMBER HORS D’OEUVRES_

  1 loaf thin sliced bread
  2 cucumbers
  1 cup mayonnaise
  4 tablespoons Dill Weed
  1 jar capers

Take thin sliced bread and trim crust. Cut them with round cutter.
Spread butter on bread rounds. Cover butter with mayonnaise and dill
weed mixed. Place thin slice of cucumber on top. Cover with dab of dill
and mayonnaise mixture and place caper on top.


_CHIPPED BEEF AND DILLED GREEN BEAN HORS D’OEUVRES_

  1 can S & W dilled green beans
  2 packages thin sliced corn beef
  1 container Kraft Horseradish and cream cheese

Spread horseradish and cream cheese on beef. Roll around dilled bean
and secure with toothpick.


_OLIVE BREAD RING_

  1   13³⁄₄ oz. package hot roll mix
  ³⁄₄ cups warm buttermilk
  1   egg
  2   tablespoons granulated sugar
  ³⁄₄ cup shredded Swiss cheese
  ³⁄₄ cup chopped walnuts
  ³⁄₄ cup thinly sliced pimento-stuffed olives

Sprinkle yeast from roll mix over buttermilk. Thoroughly blend in egg
with fork. Set aside, cool to room temperature. Mix together roll mix
and sugar; stir in cheese, walnuts and olives. Add liquid ingredients
and stir until dough clings together. Turn onto lightly floured bread
board and knead 5 or 6 times. Place in buttered bowl, cover and let
stand in warm place until doubled, about 1¹⁄₂ hours. On lightly floured
board, knead 8 or 10 times. Shape into roll about 16 to 18 inches long
and place in well buttered bundt pan. Be sure to seal ends together.
Cover and let stand in warm place until doubled, about 45 min. It will
not fill the pan. Bake in pre-heated oven at 325 degrees for about 35
to 40 minutes. Turn onto wire rack to cool. Serve with bacon-cheddar
spread.


_BACON-CHEDDAR CHEESE SPREAD_

  2   cups shredded cheddar cheese (8 oz.)
  ¹⁄₃ cup dairy sour cream
  2   tablespoons finely chopped green onion
  6   slices cooked bacon, crumbled

Mix all ingredients together. Have at room temperature to spread on
slices of the olive bread ring.


_DILL PICKLES AND BEEF WRAP_

  1 package chipped beef
  1 3 oz. package cream cheese, softened
  1 jar medium sized dill pickles

Spread cream cheese on piece of chipped beef. Wrap around a dill
pickle. Chill and slice into small pieces.


_CREAM PUFFS_

  1   cup flour
  ¹⁄₄ teaspoon salt
  ¹⁄₂ cup butter
  1   cup boiling water & 4 eggs

Combine shortening and water in saucepan; keep over low heat until
butter is melted. Sift flour and salt together and add all at one time
to water mixture, stirring vigorously over low heat until mixture
forms a ball and leaves the side of the pan. Remove from heat and
cool slightly. Add eggs, one at a time, beating thoroughly after each
addition. Beat until smooth and thick. Drop ¹⁄₂ teaspoon mixture on
greased cookie sheet, about 1¹⁄₂ inches apart. Bake at 425 degrees for
20 minutes or until beads of moisture no longer appear on surface. DO
NOT OPEN DOOR TO OVEN DURING BAKING. Cool, split and fill just before
serving. Puffs may be filled with chicken salad, tuna or one of the
following.


_BLUE CHEESE FILLING_

  1   5 oz. jar blue cheese spread, softened
  1   teaspoon Worcestershire sauce
  ¹⁄₂ cup dairy sour cream

Cream cheese spread until smooth. Blend in sauce and sour cream. Chill
until ready to fill puffs. Garnish with paprika or parsley, if desired.
Makes 1 cup.


_CRABMEAT FILLING_

  1   cup crabmeat
  1   3 oz. package cream cheese
  ¹⁄₂ cup sour cream
  ¹⁄₂ teaspoon curry
  1   teaspoon chutney
  ¹⁄₂ teaspoon salt

Mix all together and stuff in puffs.


_SHRIMP-CHEESE FILLING_

  ¹⁄₂ cup flaked cooked shrimp
  1   tablespoon chopped pimento
  1   tablespoon lemon juice
  3   tablespoons mayonnaise
  ¹⁄₄ cup shredded sharp Cheddar cheese
  salt and pepper to taste

Mix all ingredients and fill puffs.


_EXOTIC CHICKEN SALAD_

  4 pounds cooked chicken breast
  2 small packages slivered almonds
  2 cups mayonnaise
  1 tablespoon curry powder
  2 tablespoons soy sauce
  2 cups thin sliced celery
  2 6 oz. cans water chestnuts sliced thinly
  salt and pepper to taste

Mix all ingredients together and fill puffs.


_PICKLED MUSHROOMS_

  ¹⁄₂ pound mushrooms
  2   teaspoons salt
  2   cups boiling water
  ²⁄₃ cup cider vinegar
  6   peppercorns
  1   sliced onion
  1   sprig parsley
  1   bay leaf
  ¹⁄₄ teaspoon celery salt
  ¹⁄₄ cup oil

Clean mushrooms and remove stems. Cover with boiling water and salt,
simmer 5 minutes. Drain. Boil vinegar and seasonings 10 minutes. Pour
over mushrooms and refrigerate for 24 hours. Drain before serving.


_MARINATED CARROTS_

  2 pounds carrots cooked in small pieces until barely tender
  1 medium onion grated
  1 green pepper diced
  1 cup celery diced
  salt and pepper to taste

Bring to boil the following ingredients and pour over carrots.
Refrigerate for 24 hours.

  1   can tomato soup, undiluted
  ¹⁄₂ cup sugar
  ³⁄₄ cup Cider vinegar
  ¹⁄₂ cup salad oil
  1   tablespoon prepared mustard
  1   tablespoon Worcestershire sauce


_SHRIMP WAIKIKI_

Cook one pound shrimp. Halve a large pineapple lengthwise, scoop out
meat, discarding core, and cut meat into bite size pieces. Spear each
shrimp on toothpick with a piece of pineapple, and heap into one
pineapple shell. In other shell, place dip made of:

  ³⁄₄ cup sour cream
  ¹⁄₄ cup mayonnaise
  1   tablespoon horseradish


_BOLOGNA CORNUCOPIAS_

  8 slices bologna
  1 package (7¹⁄₂ oz.) farmers cheese
  1 onion minced
  2 tablespoon minced green pepper
  1 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce
  Dash paprika

Cut bologna slices in half. Roll each into a cornucopias and close with
a toothpick. Combine other ingredients and mix until smooth. Spoon into
cornucopias and chill.


_SPICED SHERRIED WALNUTS_

  1¹⁄₂ cup brown sugar
  ¹⁄₄   teaspoon salt
  ¹⁄₄   cup sherry
  1     tablespoon pumpkin pie spice
  2     tablespoons light corn syrup
  3     cups walnut halves
        granulated sugar

Blend brown sugar, salt, sherry, spice and corn syrup. Add walnuts.
Roll nuts in sugar and dry overnight on wax paper.


_HARRIETT’S MIXTURE_

  6   tablespoons butter
  4   teaspoons Worcestershire sauce
  1   teaspoon seasoned salt
  2   cups Rice Chex
  2   cups Wheat Chex
  2   cups Corn Chex
  ³⁄₄ cup salted nuts
  1   cup stick pretzels

Melt butter, add salt and Worcestershire sauce. Add rest of ingredients
and heat until all pieces are coated. Bake at 250 degrees for 45
minutes. Stir every fifteen minutes. Place on paper towels to cool.


_BARBECUED PECANS_

  1   cup butter
  ¹⁄₃ cup Worcestershire sauce
  10  dashes Tabasco sauce
  4   cups pecan halves

Melt butter, add other ingredients. Bake in 270 degree oven for 15
minutes. Take out, salt as needed. Return to oven for another 15
minutes. Drain and cool on paper towels.


_FINGER BROCCOLI_

Wash two bunches of fresh broccoli. Cut off flowerets and cut into
bite-size pieces. Stems may be saved to cook or use in soup. Make the
following marinade:

  ¹⁄₂ cup white vinegar
  ¹⁄₂ cup cider vinegar
  1   cup olive oil
  1   tablespoon dill weed
  1   tablespoon sugar
  1   tablespoon MSG
  1   teaspoon each; salt, pepper, garlic powder
  1   clove garlic, cut into fourths

Place broccoli in large container with a tight fitting lid, such as
a plastic ¹⁄₂ gallon ice cream carton. Pour marinade over broccoli.
Marinate for 24 hours, turning the carton frequently or stirring
broccoli. Remove garlic after 12 hours.


_MARINATED SHRIMP_

  2   tablespoons vinegar
  ¹⁄₃ cup oil
  1   teaspoon paprika
  ¹⁄₄ cup strong prepared mustard
  1   teaspoon salt
  ¹⁄₂ cup green onions, chopped very fine
  ¹⁄₄ cup parsley, chopped very fine
  ¹⁄₂ cup celery, chopped very fine

Marinate 1 pound shrimp in above mixture overnight. Serve with
toothpicks.


_ARTICHOKE-BRUSSEL SPROUTS_

  1 can artichoke hearts (drained)
  1 package frozen brussel sprouts (cook following directions)
  1 small bottle Wishbone dressing

Pour over prepared vegetables, sprinkle dill on top. Refrigerate and
serve with toothpicks.




[Illustration:

  Christmas
  Gifts
  To
  Make]


_RED PEPPER JELLY_

  12    red peppers ground in meat grinder
  2     hot peppers ground
  7     cups sugar
  1     6 oz. bottle Certo
  1¹⁄₂ cups cider vinegar
  1     box of paraffin

Place everything, except Certo on high heat. Stir and boil hard for ten
minutes. Add bottle of Certo and stir 10 minutes. Ladle into sterilized
jelly glasses and seal with paraffin immediately.


_HOT SPICED TEA_

  2¹⁄₃ cups sugar
  2     cups Tang
  ³⁄₄   cup instant tea
  1     package lemonade mix
  1     teaspoon cinnamon
  ¹⁄₂   teaspoon clove

Mix all ingredients together and store in tightly covered jar. Put two
teaspoons in a cup and pour in hot water.


_KAHLUA_

Boil in 1¹⁄₂ cups of water 3³⁄₄ cups granulated sugar and add 1 inch
long piece of vanilla bean, cut into 3 pieces. Let simmer for 20
minutes. Dissolve 6¹⁄₂ tablespoons instant coffee (Yuban) in ¹⁄₂ cup
water. Strain sugar-syrup through cheese cloth and let cool. When cool,
add coffee and water mixture and with 3¹⁄₂ cups 100 percent Vodka and 1
tsp. glycerin and let stand in glass bottle for two weeks.


_ORANGE AND SPICE SCENTED SUGAR_

  1   cup sugar
  1   tablespoon grated orange peel
  ¹⁄₂ teaspoon cinnamon
  ¹⁄₄ teaspoon ground nutmeg
  ¹⁄₄ teaspoon cardamom
  ¹⁄₈ teaspoon ground ginger

Heat oven to 200 degrees. Combine ingredients in a baking pan 8 × 8 ×
2 and heat for 15 minutes stirring occasionally. Cool. Pour mixture
into blender and run on low speed till sugar is fine. Store in tightly
covered container in a cool dry place. Use to sweeten coffee, tea,
applesauce, fresh apples or sprinkle on pancakes, waffles or french
toast.


_CAFE AU LAIT_

  ¹⁄₄ cup Nestle Quick
  ¹⁄₂ cup Maxim coffee
  ¹⁄₂ cup Coffeemate
  3   teaspoons cinnamon

Mix and store in glass jar. Use one rounded teaspoon per cup.


_SEASONED SALT_

  2   cups salt
  1   tablespoon garlic powder
  1   tablespoon onion powder
  1   tablespoon oregano, crushed
  ¹⁄₄ cup paprika
  2   tablespoons pepper
  1   teaspoon nutmeg
  1   tablespoon celery salt and chili powder
  ¹⁄₄ cup M.S.G.

Mix all ingredients and store in container. Use on vegetables and meat
while cooking.




Transcriber’s Notes

Obvious errors in punctuation and spelling have been fixed.

The stick of softened butter in the Cheese Squares recipe was
handwritten into the original.

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK CHRISTMAS 1976: SANTA'S
SAMPLER ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
